---
Class: Big Data
---

## Relevant Notes

12. `*` is the glob- make sure you always understand it
13. matches any set of characters- it can expand to nothing too
14. it's differet than the `*` in regex
    1. in regex, `*` is an operator- takes parameters and modifies the previous command
        1. so "e* " means 0 or more e characters
    2. but in the shell e* means it starts with an e, then has 0 or more of any characters
        1. so * in shell is .* in regex
15. this quiz focuses on weird glob edge cases
16. one weird thing- it does not expand in ANY quotation marks- single or double
17. echo * makes all the files display
18. even though it won't display in echo glob recreates, glob does include them in the expansion
19. remember touch only creates a file when the name is unique- otherwise it updates the timestamp
20. when there's no files in the folder, `touch *` just creates a file named `*`
21. unifying principle of unix- avoid error messages and always do stuff
    1. absolute opposite of modern programming principles
22. the glob will always result in at least one parameter being passed to a program 
23. the glob happens before you run the program
24. remember you can check exit codes with `echo $?`
25. glob works the way you'd expect/hope inside of for loops
26. interesting stuff- 2-3 quiz problems come from this section- it's really easy to make mistakes here
27. `rm *` will not work to remove directories
    1. this is a property of the rm program, not the glob
    2. you've gotta do `rm -r {folder}` - -r means 
28. echo lists files in alphabetical order
29. think through glob programs in steps
30. just because it expands to files, it doesn't have to be interpreted as such- could be a flag instead for instance
31. the order of expansion of * isn't defined in POSIX, but bash expands asciibetically- this doesn't matter though because usually programs don't care about order of arguments
32. so how do you delete files that look like flags?
    1. standard- `rm ./-rf`
33. difference between -r and -rf
    1. -r is recursively delete all folders, -f is force delete without asking
    2. you might need to do -f to delete some folders
34. `--` is a GNU specific extension- means all subsequent parameters are treated as files
    1. this gives you another way to delete files that start with `-`
35. git time!
36. we have to know git commit -m, git ranch, git checkout, and git checkout -h
37. these problems are straightforward though
38. `ls -a` shows you all the hidden files - all the stuff that starts with a `.`
39. `.` is the current folder `..` is the parent folder
40. but don't forget that the `.git` folder exists ! could mess up your `ls -a` answers
41. `git status`- side effect free - files are unobserved and untracked by git
42. added but not committed is the 'staging area for git'
43. two main concepts in git - commit and branch
    1. a branch is a reference to a particular commit
44. `git branch` lists all the branches and tells you what branch you're at
45. git commit only updates the current branch you have checked out
46. the subtleties are usually just what's in the staging area and what isn't
47. if you don't commit stuff, switch branches, add it, then switch back, it won't remember those files

## Notes on Quizzes

Putting a carat inside of brackets in regex negates the entire bracketed expression.

Ex.

```
$ cd; rm -rf quiz; mkdir quiz; cd quiz
$ touch hello world
$ touch hola mundo
$ touch salve munde
$ echo *[^eo]
hola world
```

Glob does not by default look at dotfiles. 
Also, remember with these problems that all folders have a `.` and `..` file.

Ex.

```
$ cd; rm -rf quiz; mkdir quiz; cd quiz
$ touch .hello world
$ touch .hola mundo
$ touch .salve munde
$ rm *e*
$ ls -a | wc -l
7
$ ls -a
.  ..  .hello  .hola  mundo  .salve  world
```

If you want to search for these you need to put a . in the glob operator.

`?` is the wildcard character- it matches exactly one of any character.

Remember- glob expansion happens in the shell before anything is passed to the program.

Touch can't create directories.

Ex.

```
$ touch test/'hello world'
touch: cannot touch 'test/hello world': No such file or directory
```

You can create and switch to a new branch at the same time by using the `-b` flag on `checkout`.

Ex.

```
$ git checkout -b foo
Switched to a new branch 'foo'
```
