---
Class: Big Data
---

## Notes from Class

1. Basic SQL time!
2. Late penalty is 2\*\*(#days late -1)
3. If you think you've done all of the tasks you probably have- but if you haven't you get a 0! It's usually better to submit correct work late than incorrect work on time
4. No quiz this week!
5. Next 3 weeks should be pretty easy- mostly SQL stuff- most students think the SQL stuff is more comfortable.
6. Also the most important section of the course- this will cover data science technical interviews.
7. we're working with relational database management systems- RDBMS
8. it doesn't matter what your problem is- a database is always the solution- lots of great guarantees
9. SQL is the standard language for accessing databases
    1. invented in the 70s so has weird backwards-compatibility stuff
    2. offical standards- ANSI SQL
10. imperative languages- like python or c etc, specify to the computer how to compute stuff
11. declarative language- you specify what to compute and a compiler converts it into imperative code- the code probably has guaranteed excellent performance
12. ORMs- object relational mappes- hide the SQL interface to the data- this makes it so you don't have to learn SQL and can rely on normal code
    1. these are easy to start with but hard to scale
    2. you should just learn sql lol
    3. SQLlchemy is an ORM
13. two other kinds of databases
    1. noSQL database- like mongodb
        1. no standard language to access them
        2. no guarantee that the data is in the database- they only have a 'best effort' guarantee
        3. no strict superset of features
    2. graph databases
        1. use SparQL instead of SQL
        2. have rare but good use cases
        3. but ongoing work is extending postgres to support these usecases
14. comparison of my main rdbms's 
    1. oracle is really good but super expensive- there are laws requiring that banks use them- but no real people use them
    2. postgres has bugs but has a design technique that makes it resistant
    3. mysql kinda sucks- has intentional design bugs that make it lose data sometimes
    4. sqlite is good unless you have more than 1 person
    5. everything else sucks
15. if you can't install docker use sqlite3. otherwise use postgresql
16. what you need to know for quizzes/hw- do the postgres tutorial on the git- read through links!
    1. `SELECT`
        1. aggregate functions- 
        2. for next quiz we're responsible for sections 1-4
    2. `JOIN` - cross/innetr joins immediately next
17. postgres changed version numbers to seem better to business people but don't worry it's still fully backwards compatible
18. `||` for string concatenation
19. to escape quotation marks double them
20. string literals are only defined with single quotation marks
21. you can also use the dollar quoted string literal
    1. means you can use `$$` to start a string
22. double quotes are for variable names- technically it's a column/relation name
23. aggregate funtions ignore null vaalues only if included in the function list
    1. null values is the most misunderstood thing in sql
24. `*` means kinda the same thing as the unix glob
25. null values are displayed as empty, not null
    1. this is confusing because for text columns it's ambiguous if it's a null value or an empty string or a spaced string
    2. don't have to worry about this on the quiz tho
26. aggregate function squashes content of table into a single row
27. `SELECT count(\*)` - always tells you total number of rows
    1. count isn't a keyword, it's defined in the standard library- functions don't get capitalized
28. `count(1)` is the same thing- used to have different runtimes
29. if you pass a column name to count, it doesn't count null values - does count duplicates though
30. stuff gets automatically typecast to make string concatenation work
31. any operator where one value is null returns null
---
Class: Big Data
---

1. sqlite
    1. they have a code of ethics and legal notice
2. deepseek
    1. big ddos attack- there's a technical explanation on github
    2. companies spend hundreds of millions of dollars to stop this from happening
    3. they had bad port forwarding on one of their systems so all of their data leaked
    4. having a port within the service means that nobody outside of the service can access it
        1. they exposed 9000 to the internet giving everyone read and write access
        2. only did it for debugging purposes
    5. group of students from a chinese university kinda like cmc- makes investment managers
    6. they got really into bitcoin before switching to ai
3. no lab this week! he's just going over the first few problems in the hw
    1. before lab go to the hw and do the setup tasks
4. we need to know the differences between sqlite and postres
5. `/` is kinda universal for searching
6. `CREATE TABLE` defines the schema of the db- sometimes this fille will be called `schema.sql`
7. things are correct if they're silent in UNIX
8. `.schema` gives you the schema of the db
9. if you want a more readable thing in sqlite - run `.mode markdown` - postgres does this automatically
10. if any input to an operation is null, the output is null
11. postgres doesn't give meaningful column names by default- but sqlite does!
12. why do null values act like that?
13. SQL isn't BOOLean logic, but Trinary logic
    1. there's three possible values—TRUE, FALSE, and NULL
14. NULL semantics- we don't know what the value is
    1. this means not NULL is also NULL
15. sometimes, even if we don't know what the value is, we know what the output is
    1. ie FALSE AND always evaluates to false. this is like short-circuiting
16. there is no unambiguous way to render null
17. the quiz is count, sum, min, and max
18. the quiz is not- mean, avg, percentile
19. `DISTINCT` operator - weird behavior bc it modifies the behavior of a function from inside a function
20. SQL commands that start with `select` are called queries
21. null values get grouped together with the `DISTINCT` operator
22. how can you count null value rows? it's impossible with syntax we'v eseen so far
23. up arrow works different in PSQL- gives you the entire command not just a line
24. even NULL=NULL evaluates to NULL
25. you check if soething is null with `IS NULL`
26. NULL in sql is very similar to None in Python- but not identical
27. ANSI SQL standard
    1. like operator- is case sensitive
    2. % behaves like the POSIX glob
28. but in sqlite3- like is case *insensitive*
29. in postgres like is case sensitive
    1. case insensitive is `ILIKE`
    2. and this op doesn't exist in sqlite3
30. on our quiz we're providing answers on postgres and sqlite
    1. ILIKE and LIKE are the only differences we'll see on the first quiz
    2. if the answer is the same for both just show one, if it's different do both
    3. you don't need to write the whole error message, just say error
31. `GROUP BY`
32. if you have a column alongside your aggregate the column must have a group by clause with that column
32. putting a group by in the column list is equivalent to doing `SELECT DISTINCT`
32. the sql standard doesn't define how `DESC` works- sqlite and postgres do the ordering defined by your locale- we have us alphabetical ordering
33. we'll need joins for hw- we'll do it in lab tmrw
---
Class: Big Data
---

1. more extra credit opportunities! these ones use docker swarm and kubernetes
2. quiz thurs on sql- each problem worth 2 points, 4 problems
3. remember the difference in `like` operators between the two- postgres is case sensitive and mysql is not
4. remember- nearly all points are lost through null value mishandling
5. we remove rows where `WHERE` evaluates to either `NULL` or `FALSE`
6. `WHERE` is before grouping, `HAVING` is after
7. there's never a situation where you have to use one of these or the other—it's just a syntactic convenience
8. you can include aggregate functions in a `HAVING` clause- you can't have one in `WHERE`
9. aggregates require `GROUP BY`, but not vice versa
10. any columns you select need an entry in `GROUP BY` except for aggregated columns
11. `/e` opens up a vim window that lets you use vim to edit your previously written bash commands
12. intuition- `HAVING` does filtering on a new table created by a grouping operation
13. without `ORDER BY` results are nondeterministic- computer scientists HATE this- creates tons of bugs
14. if you're getting different results it's because your `ORDER BY` clause is wrong
15. postgres is allowed to pick any order it wants in the clause so sometimes you get weird orders for hard to predict reasons
16. prereq courses pretty much all do join incorrectly
17. we're going to go into detail on what the joins actually do and how they interact with null values
18. `CROSS JOIN` - done with a comma
    1. concatenates the two tables horizontally
    2. gives you every possible combinations of the rows in both tables
    3. name comes from 'cross product' in set theory
    4. every other join is just a cross join plus other things
    5. not commonly used by itself
19. `INNER JOIN` is cross join plus a where clause
    1. this is `JOIN ON`
    2. so `JOIN basketb ON basketa.id = basketb.id` is `FROM basketa, basketb WHERE basketa.id=basketb.id`
    3. you can use non-equality joins too!
20. `USING` inside inner join has an equality condition and an identical column name in both tables
21. `NATURAL JOIN`
    1. joins the tables on all columns with shared names—you don't even need to specify!
22. self join - joining a table with itself—this will be on the quiz on thursday
    1. not a special join- any join can be a self-join if you're joining on the same table
    2. any time you're doing it you need to name the two tables with `AS` so we can reference both
    3. why would anyone ever do this?
23. cross, inner, and natural are associative and commutative
24. llms get essentially 100% on these
25. but next week we're moving into stuff they can't do
26. prepare for the quiz- do the quiz examples in the repo- once you've found what's difficult look at the quiz notes files
27. subqueries
    1. it's a `SELECT` statement inside of a `SELECT` statement
    2. not usually covered in intro clasess
    3. this is how they get huge
    4. anywhere you're allowed to use a table you can replace the table name with an expression that generates a table
    5. in postgres all subqueries MUST have aliases- sqlite doesn't require this
        1. means you have to name the tables generated by all subqueries
        2. you can delete AS and it'll be fine
28. Set operations- think unions and intersections
29. `UNION ALL` concatenates tables vertically
30. sqlite is weakly typed and postgres is strongly typed- so the types from a union dont' need to matchc in sqlite but they do in postgres
31. if we take away `ALL`, the union removes duplicates

## Notes on Quizzes

1. > null always returns null
2. you only need a group by when you have a nonaggregated column and an aggregated column both selected
3. `HAVING` can only include columns that are in the select statement
4. 
