---
Class: Big Data
---

1. general struc- announcements, lecture notes, live coding stuff/quiz stuff
2. if you can't make the labs irl do them remotely
3. do the two culture tasks by the end of the semester
4. extra credit opportunities in github issues
5. working envirnoment is always the lambda server
    1. we have 10gb of space on /, 250gb on /data
    2. most of us will run out of space so we'll talk about that then
6. docker and docker compose lets us contect to arbitrary amount of servers
    1. we really need shell scripting for this
7. live coding time! not sure how to take notes for that
8. exit closes your connection to the lambda server
9. grep allows any regex
10. it's actually the og program that invented regex
11. ^ - means beginning of line
12. $ - means end of line
13. wc -l
    1. counts the total number of lines in stdin
    2. wc is word count, -l is a line modifier
14. if there's no output to a command on a quiz LEAVE THE PROBLEM BLANK
    1. he will take points off if you write 'there is no output'
15. grep -E tag
    1. allows extended regular expressions
    2. ie alternation operators
    3. when do you need the -E?
        1. check the grep manpage with man grep
        2. for now you can kinda ignore the -E
        3. it's about the minimal required syntax to make regex work- | isn't in it
16. inside of quotation marks, | is an alternation operator
17. for the quiz we have to know ^ $ . * |
18. here document, heredoc - 
19. `<<EOF` - input redirection via a heredoc - when you run this it will take everything you type until you type EOF and redirect that input into the thing to the left
    1. EOF is traditional but you can use any combination of characters you want
    2. has to be an exact match, not regex
20. ! isn't an exclamation point, it's a bang
