---
Class: Big Data
---

1. quiz will be on the three files he passed out last week- 00, 01, 02
2. labs are due sunday midnight - no late penalty on this lab but be reasonable
3. homework is due tuesday midnight - no late penalty on this one either
4. inside of the steps section inside of github actions there's a list of terminal commands inside run: |
5. so to test you can just run these commands
6. eventually our github action will just run a shell script that includes all our tests in it
7. a block - function, module, class, something that you're defining
    1. docstrings need to go after definitions for these
8. some of the problems on the quiz files will be exactly identical- most will be very similar - if you can do the practice ones you're good
9. there will be no time pressure on this quiz
10. making your shell prompt shorter - export ps1='$ '
11. idempotency - if a function has no effect and you can call it more than one time without changing the environment, it's idempotent
12. shell variable features
    1. no spaces around equals sign
    2. a string with spaces has to be in quotation marks
13. if you want to do a variable substitution you need a dollar sign in front of your variable
14. in shell, variable gets interpreted before passing the outcome to the terminal
15. in python, single and double quotes have the same meaning- not in terminal
16. in single quotes, variable expansion does not happen
17. in double quotes, it does!
18. $() is command subsitution- $ always means substitution, () means whatever is inside is run as if it were a function
19. so var=$(echo echo echo) runs echo echo echo, and puts the output in a file named var
20. concatenation is just smushing stuff together
21. putting curly braces around the variable is cool too
22. if you use a variable that doesn't exist you don't get an error message, it just subsitutes in an empty string
23. heredocs - we covered these last class
24. any time you do substitution in a shell instead of in double quotes, spacing gets ignored and it just all gets printed in one line
25. if you put single quotes around the EOF characters in the heredoc it ignores variable substitution
26. you can't substitute some variables and not others
27. new way of defining a varible
    1. export {variable definition}
    2. this makes the variable an environment variable- will get passed to all children processes
    3. any time you run a shell script, all the variables you exported exist inside of the child process and will get substituted correctly
    4. you can also make one by defining a variable in the same line as when you run a child process
