---
Class: Big Data
---

1. this week we only have a lab, no homework
2. no late penalty on this lab as well- but you have to email him an explanation now
3. quiz covers shell topics 3-5
    1. 4 review problems and 4 new problems
    2. and you can retake this weeks quiz
4. notes packets will be smaller going forward
5. collaboration policy is in a new github issue
    1. he wants us to work together a lot
    2. post anything on github issues
    3. to collaborate you need to do it in a public space that's easily accessible to everyone in class
    4. you have to post it in the thread publicly so that everyone can see that the collaboration is going on
    5. no looking at someone's code on github
4. you can specify the language a code is in for syntax highlighting by putting the name of hte language after the triple backticks
5. the shell is a programming environment
6. in shell you create lists using spaces
    1. `a b c d e f` is a list of length 6
7. you can do for loops in multiple lines and it's nicer for coding
8. `do` puts you in the body of a file

Ex.

```
quiz % for file in a b c d e f;             
for> do touch $file;
for> done
quiz % ls
a	b	c	d	e	f
```

9. if you don't do the variable substitution here, the code will just make 6 files named file
10. quotation marks group variables in for loops
11. but because these are envronment variables yuo need to put your variable in quotation marks to honor those groupings
12. in the if statement, the block is started by `then` as opposed to `do` in for loops
13. in the shell you can re-use keywords and it's chill
14. you end if statements with `fi`
15. the check for equality here is `=`
16. make sure to list all of your files
17. terminal is the graphical program you type into- this is an emulator that handles copypaste colorscheme, runs on your computer, not the lambda server
18. shell is nongraphical- it's what actually runs the commands
