---
Class: Big Data
---

1. sourcing isn't just for environment variables, it's for *all variables*
2. remember - single arrow output redirection overrides the content of the file
3. order of expansion - variable substitution happens first, then glob
4. with multi-word files you need quotation marks around variable substitution
5. git checkout branch doesn't change your working directory
6. docker!
7. lab tomorrow doesn't directly use docker- but hw does so get it installed
8. today- basic commands we'll need for hw
9. `docker run -it ubuntu` - we want to spawn a new computer with ubuntu
    1. the lambda server runs ubuntu
    2. this puts you in a new terminal session- the top one is running a separate computer
    3. you have full control for it
10. i am groot is ABSOLUTELY a pun for i am root
11. docker containers by default don't have vim
    1. get it with `apt-get install vim`
    2. the first time you try to uninstall it won't work because it doesn't know what packages are available
    3. so you have to run 'apt-get update'
12. to list your docker containers run `docker ps` - also a good test of if you have it installed
13. type `exit` to leave- just like in the lambda server
14. `docker exec it {container_name} {command}` - runs a command on the targeted container
15. once you fully leave a container it's gone for good- they're ephemeral
16. a Dockerfile is how you work around the ephemerality
17. they must be spelled exactly `Dockerfile`
18. the first line is always `FROM ubuntu`
19. everything after is `RUN {command you want to run}`
20. to compile a dockerfile- `docker build .`
    1. doesn't follow unix convention of file specification- you name a folder that contains the dockerfile
21. dockerfiles have weird unhelpful error messages
22. you can't put user input in dockerfiles. it's okay! you can add `-y` in any incantation to automatically say yes to everything
23. any commands that are successful are cashed
24. `docker image ls` - lists all the images you've made
25. every run command creates a new checkpoint that you can start your machine at
26. at the end of the docker build command it says the image
27. `docker run -i {image}`
28. you can name images- they're called tags
    1. `docker build -t {image}`
29. homework is an existing tutorial to follow
30. if everything works it should take 20 minutes, but who knows!
31. we're going to work on port forwarding
32. these machines are virtual machines on the lambda server but it's a one line modification to run them on google cloud or aws, or anything
33. the commands are all the same though
