---
Class: Big Data
---

1. this is the last sysadmin week
2. this week is building up to the ig tech stack
3. there's new shell extra credit- can get up to 4 points
    1. but no collaboration on this- and you can only get 1 point a week max
4. this thurs we have a review quiz- worth 16 points now, it's our last shell quiz
5. it'll focus on problems that people got wrong
6. collaboration policy update- you can get a 2 day extension on any lab/hw if you work with someone
7. today we're just going to walk through the hw from scratch- i'll jot down development takeaways
8. adding `-a` flag after docker ps shows you hidden containers- the containers are hidden because they're stopped but not deleted
9. the command to do it is `docker rm {container_hash}`
10. let's write a script for us to delete our empty script here
11. shell commands have machine readable versions and human reasonable versions- those are the quiet version of commands
12. the machine readable person of `docker ps -a`, `docker ps -aq` just gives us the machine readable values
13. to open multiple files at once in different tabs in vim use `vim * -p`
14. `gt` moves to the right, `gT` to the left
15. scripting languages like python and r don't have a build step. if you make changes you have to run `docker build` for changes to take effect
16. when you're a non-root user, your prompt is `$` -unless you're on mac, then it's `%`
17. but when you're a root user your prompt is ALWAYS `#` - this means you can't acccidentally paste commands from root
18. not specifying your ubuntu version not a great idea- that just puts you on the latest version which will break later
19. if you do `docker run --rm` it'll remove the container after you run the command
20. general principle- update the versions of simpler software first and keep the more complex software on the same version
21. python had a famous split from 2 to 3 - almost caused the language to collapse
22. how `COPY` works
    1. `COPY {closer path to you} {further path from you (the docker container)}
23. you don't need the full hash! once you hit the unique value you can just click enter
24. make sure to hardcode all safe version numbers
25. use pip list and pip freeze for generating requirements.txt explicitly and well
    1. `pip freeze > requirements.txt`
26. `-d` stands for daemon
27. `docker logs {hash}` lets you see logs
28. docker compose will help simplify the docker commands
29. no lab assignment on friday—we're walking through the first steps of the hw instead 
