---
Class: Big Data
---

1. Basic SQL time!
2. Late penalty is 2\*\*(#days late -1)
3. If you think you've done all of the tasks you probably have- but if you haven't you get a 0! It's usually better to submit correct work late than incorrect work on time
4. No quiz this week!
5. Next 3 weeks should be pretty easy- mostly SQL stuff- most students think the SQL stuff is more comfortable.
6. Also the most important section of the course- this will cover data science technical interviews.
7. we're working with relational database management systems- RDBMS
8. it doesn't matter what your problem is- a database is always the solution- lots of great guarantees
9. SQL is the standard language for accessing databases
    1. invented in the 70s so has weird backwards-compatibility stuff
    2. offical standards- ANSI SQL
10. imperative languages- like python or c etc, specify to the computer how to compute stuff
11. declarative language- you specify what to compute and a compiler converts it into imperative code- the code probably has guaranteed excellent performance
12. ORMs- object relational mappes- hide the SQL interface to the data- this makes it so you don't have to learn SQL and can rely on normal code
    1. these are easy to start with but hard to scale
    2. you should just learn sql lol
    3. SQLlchemy is an ORM
13. two other kinds of databases
    1. noSQL database- like mongodb
        1. no standard language to access them
        2. no guarantee that the data is in the database- they only have a 'best effort' guarantee
        3. no strict superset of features
    2. graph databases
        1. use SparQL instead of SQL
        2. have rare but good use cases
        3. but ongoing work is extending postgres to support these usecases
14. comparison of my main rdbms's 
    1. oracle is really good but super expensive- there are laws requiring that banks use them- but no real people use them
    2. postgres has bugs but has a design technique that makes it resistant
    3. mysql kinda sucks- has intentional design bugs that make it lose data sometimes
    4. sqlite is good unless you have more than 1 person
    5. everything else sucks
15. if you can't install docker use sqlite3. otherwise use postgresql
16. what you need to know for quizzes/hw- do the postgres tutorial on the git- read through links!
    1. `SELECT`
        1. aggregate functions- 
        2. for next quiz we're responsible for sections 1-4
    2. `JOIN` - cross/innetr joins immediately next
17. postgres changed version numbers to seem better to business people but don't worry it's still fully backwards compatible
18. `||` for string concatenation
19. to escape quotation marks double them
20. string literals are only defined with single quotation marks
21. you can also use the dollar quoted string literal
    1. means you can use `$$` to start a string
22. double quotes are for variable names- technically it's a column/relation name
23. aggregate funtions ignore null vaalues only if included in the function list
    1. null values is the most misunderstood thing in sql
24. `*` means kinda the same thing as the unix glob
25. null values are displayed as empty, not null
    1. this is confusing because for text columns it's ambiguous if it's a null value or an empty string or a spaced string
    2. don't have to worry about this on the quiz tho
26. aggregate function squashes content of table into a single row
27. `SELECT count(\*)` - always tells you total number of rows
    1. count isn't a keyword, it's defined in the standard library- functions don't get capitalized
28. `count(1)` is the same thing- used to have different runtimes
29. if you pass a column name to count, it doesn't count null values - does count duplicates though
30. stuff gets automatically typecast to make string concatenation work
31. any operator where one value is null returns null
