---
Class: Big Data
---

1. sqlite
    1. they have a code of ethics and legal notice
2. deepseek
    1. big ddos attack- there's a technical explanation on github
    2. companies spend hundreds of millions of dollars to stop this from happening
    3. they had bad port forwarding on one of their systems so all of their data leaked
    4. having a port within the service means that nobody outside of the service can access it
        1. they exposed 9000 to the internet giving everyone read and write access
        2. only did it for debugging purposes
    5. group of students from a chinese university kinda like cmc- makes investment managers
    6. they got really into bitcoin before switching to ai
3. no lab this week! he's just going over the first few problems in the hw
    1. before lab go to the hw and do the setup tasks
4. we need to know the differences between sqlite and postres
5. `/` is kinda universal for searching
6. `CREATE TABLE` defines the schema of the db- sometimes this fille will be called `schema.sql`
7. things are correct if they're silent in UNIX
8. `.schema` gives you the schema of the db
9. if you want a more readable thing in sqlite - run `.mode markdown` - postgres does this automatically
10. if any input to an operation is null, the output is null
11. postgres doesn't give meaningful column names by default- but sqlite does!
12. why do null values act like that?
13. SQL isn't BOOLean logic, but Trinary logic
    1. there's three possible values—TRUE, FALSE, and NULL
14. NULL semantics- we don't know what the value is
    1. this means not NULL is also NULL
15. sometimes, even if we don't know what the value is, we know what the output is
    1. ie FALSE AND always evaluates to false. this is like short-circuiting
16. there is no unambiguous way to render null
17. the quiz is count, sum, min, and max
18. the quiz is not- mean, avg, percentile
19. `DISTINCT` operator - weird behavior bc it modifies the behavior of a function from inside a function
20. SQL commands that start with `select` are called queries
21. null values get grouped together with the `DISTINCT` operator
22. how can you count null value rows? it's impossible with syntax we'v eseen so far
23. up arrow works different in PSQL- gives you the entire command not just a line
24. even NULL=NULL evaluates to NULL
25. you check if soething is null with `IS NULL`
26. NULL in sql is very similar to None in Python- but not identical
27. ANSI SQL standard
    1. like operator- is case sensitive
    2. % behaves like the POSIX glob
28. but in sqlite3- like is case *insensitive*
29. in postgres like is case sensitive
    1. case insensitive is `ILIKE`
    2. and this op doesn't exist in sqlite3
30. on our quiz we're providing answers on postgres and sqlite
    1. ILIKE and LIKE are the only differences we'll see on the first quiz
    2. if the answer is the same for both just show one, if it's different do both
    3. you don't need to write the whole error message, just say error
31. `GROUP BY`
32. if you have a column alongside your aggregate the column must have a group by clause with that column
32. putting a group by in the column list is equivalent to doing `SELECT DISTINCT`
32. the sql standard doesn't define how `DESC` works- sqlite and postgres do the ordering defined by your locale- we have us alphabetical ordering
33. we'll need joins for hw- we'll do it in lab tmrw
