---
Class: Big Data
---

1. right now everything can be redone for full credit
2. you need to understand the first week or two perfectly for the rest of the course
3. the grace period for late assignments ends this sunday
4. course is modified- we're  spending another week on review material
    1. so the quiz this thursday will cover topics 3-4 and not 5
        1. and remember we can retake the last quiz if we want to - you can show up 10-20 mins early and have lots of time
    2. aislee is the ta
5. history of the unix shell
    1. first one was written by ken thompson - other inventor was dennis richie - established the unkept beards stereotype
    2. not the first program- that was RUNCOM - run commands- that was in 1963
    3. any files that end in rc were originally designed for the RUNCOM shell - like `.vimrc`
    4. lots of new shells- the Bourne shell -after stephen bourne - is standard since 1979 for unix branded systems- linux isn't unix branded
    5. now everyone uses opensource shells - almquist- ash - this was bsd licensed
        1. most popular licenses - bsd means you can do whatever you want, gpl only restriction is that if you modify you have to redistribute- there's a religion around gpl
    6. bash- written in 1989 - means bourne-again - made by brian fox - most important Black philosopher of our time - his gpl philosophy is realyl important
        1. comes out of the GNU project
    7. the originator of gpl- richard stallman - infamous for doing things like cutting his toenails while he's teaching classes at MIT
    8. on debian systems- most linux systems that end-users interact with is debian based systems- have dash instead of bash- it's really fast. it's like bashbut isn't quite as human-friendly
    9. if you're on a mac you use zsh- it's bsd licensed - bc apple didn't want to distribute their own source code
    10. all shells are slightly different- we're programing targeting the POSIX (portable operating system interface) - defines what the common features for shells are
    11. there are some non-POSIX shells - fish and oil - they're not backwards compatible so nobody uses them
        1. lindy effect - the longer something has survived, the longer it's going to survive
    12. what exactly is the shell doing?
        1. it's a thin layer over the operating systems
        2. shell programs are small and efficient programs for interfacing with that operating system which is written in c
            1. small means 5-10k lines
    13. dash runs the scripts, bash is what you interact with
6. parallel programing
    1. it's 'trivial' to do it in posix shells with & and nohup - takes less than 24 hrs to understand it
    2. there are two techinques- threads and processes
        1. threads are more efficient with minimal overhead- but it's impossible to use these in python or shell
        2. processes are heavier weight- 10mb of unavoidable overhead per process
    3. programming with theads and processes is hard
    4. but mapreduce makes it easy!
7. conditional time!
8. lots of environment variabes control aspects of interactive shells- this is part of what makes bash slower - dash does not do stuff like this
9. remember basic syntax
    1. `if [ condition ]; then executable fi`
        1. you have to have spaces between the brackets for this to work
    2. single equals is equality operator
    3. in the shell there's no restrictions on keywords
    4. people lose a lot of points on how variable substitution happens- 
    5. idempotent- side-effect free commands
10. on his gh, he has a project called quiz where you can find all of the pdfs and the test harnesses
11. `else` and `elif` do what you'd think they'd do
12. first thing to look at in a heredoc -are there single quotes? if so we don't have variable substitutions
12. `||` - the or operator in the shell
    1. this is the c and java or operator
13. sometimes commands get absorbed- that's just a terminal effect, the shell remembers don't worry
14. remember- if you have a heredoc without variable substitution, **all** variables will get substituted
15. to make files executable you need to add a shebang at the top
    1. ie `#! /bin/sh` - common way to make them executable - this is the dash program that will execute the script
16. `&&` means and - every language before python used this
17. `true` and `false` have the semantics you'd expect
18. `!` means not
19. outside and inside square brackets is semantically equal for where to put the `!`
20. short circuiting - feature of nearly every language, but usually considered bad form, but in the shell it's good form
    1.  most important thing to have down
    2. if you're doing a conditoinal and the whole expression's truth value is determined from just looking at the left side, you never evaluate the right sign
    3. ex. ` false || echo hola' yields hola, and `true || echo hola` yields nothing
        1. this applies all the time, not just in line
21. or and and look at the 'exit code' of the previous program- exit code of 0 is success, 1 is failure - backwards of python
22. to inspect exit code, run `$?` - tells you exit code of previous command
23. when a quiz problem has ls at the end, CHECK CAREFULLY FOR ALL FILES
24. special file `/dev/null` - any time we don't care about the output, only the exit code, we put it in null
    1. it automatically deletes anything you put in it
