---
Class: Big Data
---

1. Quiz mostly on `quiz_notes_2.sql` and `join_notes.sql`
2. lab and hw are due after spring break
3. topic 6 is focusing on schemas
4. `INTERSECT`, `EXCEPT` - work like you'd expect them to
5. stuff to remember
    1. sqlite is flexibly typed- you can take a string column and union it with an integer- in postgres this is an error
    2. Postgres supports every set operation including the ALL variant, sqlite3 only supports set operations that don't include the ALL variant
        1. mathematically sets don't contain duplicates
        2. the ALL variant doesn't remove duplicates
        3. ALL also makes things much computationally cheaper
6. if you're trynig to see if `NULL` is in a list or something you can't use the `IN` syntax because that uses the equals operator- will never be true if one of the operands is `NULL`
7. `NULL` is falsy
8. `SELECT 3 UNION SELECT 4` is just the same thing as `SELECT 3, 4`
9. adding the keyword inside of a subquery isn't going to change your outer query- because the IN just does a lot of OR clauses
10. OUTER JOINS isn't the most difficult but it's the easiest part to miss points for stupid mistakes
11. remember- inner join is a cross join plus a where clause
12. outer joins are inner joins plus a set operation
13. `a.*` gives you all the columns in the A table
14. you get an inner join plus all the rows that weren't encapsulated in that inner join
15. left outer join gives you the inner join plus
    1. all of the rows in table a that aren't in the inner join
16. common sources of errors- duplicate rows and null values
17. other stuff- every row in a that didnt' get included in the inner join, but with null values in the b columns
18. right join is the same thing just swaps the order of the tables
19. full join is just putting right and left join together—rarely used though
20. intuition- left/right join + is null is like where not in subquery
21. but if you have ull values in your columns from the select column in the subquery this won't work
22. `ma` in vim creates a mark so you can jump back to where you were by typing `'a`
23. there's a bunch of problems here- work through them before the quiz!
24. full join is the same as full outer join
25. adding the word outer never changes anything
26. we can add natural join whenever- it just adds a using clause implicitly
    1. remember- natural just adds a using clause on any columns with the same name
27. most people pick left joins
