---
Class: Big Data
---

1. next two weeks we're focusing on the hardest concept in computer science! concurrency
2. but after that the end of the semester shoudl be pretty fluffy
3. focus on extra credit stuff if you don't like your grade
4. quiz thursday is easier than previous sql quizzes if yuo know what's going on
    1. computers are allowed! - this will be true from all quizzes here on out
5. no lab this week bc cesar chavez day, and no hw
6. the references contain sql queries that solve the problems for you automatically- so read those so you don't have to think on the quiz
7. 3 more homeworks
    1. we're gonna analyze twitter using postgres
    2. the hard part is getting the data into postgres
    3. half of the points are still remaining in the class
8. all non-graduating students have an additional project that we'll talk about in a few weeks
9. reminders
    1. headers is always 23 bytes
    2. null bitmap has one bit per column in the table- if it exceeds 8 bit than the header is bigger than 24 bytes, has to be divisible by 8, so the header goes up to 32
    3. the real calculations are in the data- figure out how much in each
    4. and the overall row size has to be divisible by 8 so you need padding at the end
10. quiz
    1. two separate insert into table commands- how many does this take up?
    2. NEW- two create table commands- answer with the optimal ordering of rows to minimize disk space usage
11. to optimize disk usage
    1. order the columns from largest to smallest
12. if a type has a number in it, that's how many types it takes up
13. on the quiz a JSON is guaranteed to be null because he doesn't expect us to know how json disk space calculation works
14. you can't make id come first
15. why doesn't postgres automatically reorder columns? it's an open issue for someone to do this for them
16. if there's a tie in bytelength, the ordering doesn't matter
17. essentially all difficult bugs are concurrency bugs
18. concurrency- when multiple programs use the database at the same time
    1. this is easy for reading data- nothing special to worry about as a user
    2. for writing this is really hard
        1. embedded databases like sqlite3 don't support concurrent writes
            1. if someone asks you which rdbms to use, ask if you need concurrent writes
        2. this is why other databases are more complicated
        3. as a user there's a lot to worry about too
        4. this is a major source of nondeterminism- hard problem
        5. lots of research but not very many best practices
        6. there's impossibility theorems on concurrent writes too
    3. there's lots of tools to help you manage this-usually covered in operating systems courses
        1. semaphores, barriers, spinlocks, mutexes, etc.
        2. os-level tools are really hard to work with- so modern programing languages have specific behavior
            1. python most famously uses the asyncio module
            2. every new version since adding this module has been backwards incompatible
            3. check out the cs46 hw on this
        3. databases use transactions and locks to manage this
        4. the quiz on this- next thursday -  will be worth 16 points and seems like it's gonna be really hard
19. quiz
    1. any time there's a select statement we're required to write the output of that select statement
    2. if you just have an insert statement the output of those insert staetmens are available to all sessions- this is called a 'naked insert statement' or a 'bare insert statement'
    3. `BEGIN;` starts a 'transaction'- nothign is committed until you run `COMMIT;`
    4. `ROLLBACK;`  - forgets all the data you inserted in your `BEGIN` block
    5. remember, `SELECT` is idempotent
    6. `ABORT;` - in postgres these are identical, in other databases abort can signal an error
    7. up until now it's identical with sqlite- when we get to concurrent writes those don't work
        1. for the quiz we're only responsible for postgres though
    8. if you're inside a transaction you can see all the stuff that's publicly posted, but nothing that's privately posted
    9. when you start your transaction you can specify an isolation level
        1. if you set it to repeatable read it'll only read the data from when you ran your first select command
            1. NOT WHEN YOU STARTED THE TRANSACTION
        2. if you set it to read committed- it's the default one so it'll only read committed stuff
    10. postgres has 4 isolation levels but we don't need to know the other two
