---
Class: Big Data
---

1. quiz this thurs is only on section 1-7, the stuff we've already covered
2. we haven't seen any errors yet! will see that with unique constraints
3. reminder- to figure out whether something blocks look at the table
4. and for implicit stuff you can check the implicit documentation!
5. this week is about preparing for hw and lab
6. common volumes ./:/tmp/db - matches your proj folder to the /tmp/db folder
7. format for named volumes- left hand side is stuff close to you, right is far
8. if there's named volumes, docker compose down isn't enough to start from scratch, you also have to remove the volumes
9. two services in docker are two separate machines
10. remember- all ports under 1024 are root
11. if there are git submodules their information is in a file called .gitmodules
12. sql and expected folders are common structures
13. so is a `run_tests.sh` file
14. how do we use json data in postgres?
    1. denormalized strategy
        1. combining info into a single relation- you'll have redundant information
    2. normalized strategy
        1. you're splitting info into different locations
15. there are 11 normal forms in use- we don't care about this though, and only db academics really do
16. with denormalization it's really easy to get data into your db, but it's not so good
    1. it's a one line shell command in the README
    2. two gotchas though
        1. we're looping over a file where there's only one file, next time we'll use more files
        2. using denormalized rep we have no guarantees on data integrity so it's easy to add the same tweet twice- if you run the command twice for instance
            1. so after you get it working comment it out so you don't add too much data
            2. in the `docker-compose` file
17. we'll store less data with normalized format and it'll be a lot more efficient
18. how to fix your db if you fuck it up
    1. you need to delete particular docker volumes to fix this
19. if you're permanently deleting stuff make that deletion explicit
20. postgres breaks if you try to insert null values as strings
21. divide code as much as you can to get doctests
22. our job- writing the sql insert commands
23. sqlalchemy lets us handle transactions with one command
24. making this run in parallel is where the locks concerns are going to come up
25. --db needs info from the environment section of the `docker-compose.yml` file
