---
Class: Big Data
---

1. today- multi version concurrency control
2. it's what postgres uses to implement transactions and locks
3. there's not much observable behavior here- especially on correctness
    1. but it does matter for making things fast!
4. there's a lot of material here but we're not being directly quizzed on this
    1. it's going to come up in quizzes on indexes
5. last of transactions quizzes on thurs
6. this material is rarely taught at any course at any level
7. reference- the internals of postgres - standard textbook for postgres
8. logical isn't about physical implementation- it's about how it's presented to a user
9. people talk about postgres databases- usually they're talking about database clusters
10. you used to have different db instances in a single postgres cluster- now we use docker for this
11. table file- file that stores information inside a table
12. in sqlite we have one file for the whole db, in postgres it's one file per table
13. tables are divided in to 8kb pages
14. each page has
    1. header information
    2. data stored from the end to the beginning
    3. remember 'tuple' = row
    4. there's line pointers too- one byte each, they tell you where each row is in the data
        1. we need this because rows have variable size
    5. there's also free space- called the 'hole' 
    6. there's a lot of wasted space- we need at least 8kb to store any amount of rows
    7. sometimes called 'heap tables' - unrelated to the heap data structure, but related to heaps in c
15. in header
    1. `pd_lower` - points to the highest line pointer
    2. `pd_higher` - points to the lowest data
16. there's multiple algorithms it can use
    1. sequential scan - what everything so far has done, just a for loop
    2. index scan - uses tuple ids to search for things more directly
17. there's different variatins of index scan- we want pg to use them
18. what's going on in the 23 bytes of row overhead?
    1. `t_xmin` - minimum transaction id that can see whatever value has been inserted
    2. `t_xmax` - 0 if it's ongoing, 1 when it's finished
    3. `t_cid`
    4. `tcid` 
    5. all about transactions
    6. txid- transaction number- incrementing, everyone one gets a unique one
    7. when you delete something the tmax is set to that transaction id- you're not actually deleting data you're updating a value in the header row
    8. an update is just an elete vollowed by an insert
19. vacuuming
    1. helps us maintain weird behavior from insert, update, and delete
    2. concurretn vacuum- also called vacuum
    3. full vacuum
    4. dead tuple- one that's no longer visible to any transaction
        1. can be when something's deleted or updateds
    5. vacuuming removes these
        1. won't actually free up disk space by deleting a page, even if all the tuples are dead
        2. by default tables can only grow in size on a hard drive
    6. full vacuuming removes the pages
    7. we want vacuuming to be able to run concurrently with doing stuff on the database
    8. autovacuum runs the vacuum constantly
    9. visibility map of each table indicates whether tehre is a dead tuple or not
    10. vacuum locks each page at a time
    11. the end users usually don't observe that this lock happens because it's so fast
    12. what they actually do
        1. shuffles locations of other tuples on the disk
        2. adjusts line pointers to those tuples
        3. updates `pd_upper` and `pd_lower`
        4. it actually just rewrites all the bytes- hard drives odn't usualy let you write less than that at once
    13. full vacuum takes of the strongest lock- creates a new table file and ocpies the info one at a time to use the smallest number of pages
    14. scheduled downtime maitinence is often for full vacuums
    15. but these days hard drivers are really cheap, so people just buy more storage
20. limitation of postgres
    1. txmin, txmax are 4 unsigned bits- means the max amount of transactions you can haev going on is around 4 billion
        1. this is not much for instagram though
    2. postgres does transactionid wraparound
    3. the fututure includes bigger and smaller numbers- moves by 2^31
    4. vacuum updates the circle so it know where the visible and invisible line is
    5. this means for large databases you can't do some operations because a vacuum is in progress
        1. beginning data engineer try to turn autovacuuming off
        2. but if you do this you'll run out of transactions quickly
    6. hard limit of 2 billion transactions
        1. wraparound lets us reassign transaction numbers efficiently
