---
Class: Big Data
---

1. remember- quiz next tuesday, it'll be a takehome quiz with no restrictions on resources other than talking to other people
2. expect even more weird annoying things to come up on the last assignment
3. people use 'heap', 'table', and 'relation' independently- relation is the abstract math, heap is the data structure, table is both in one concept
4. actual btree fanout in postgress is 500-1000
5. remember the scanning strategies
    1. sequential scan
    2. index scan
    3. index only scan
    4. bitmap scan
8. in the index scan the number of pages access always equals the number of rows you're selecting
    1. you can potentially access more pages than exist in the table- if it is than doing a sequential scan would have been faster
9. a 'covering index' - no additional information a query needs to be able to do an index only scan
10. index doesn't tell us if information is visible or not- means it sometimes has to access pages when it's not clear if its there- this means vacuuming is required for the index-only scan to be efficient
    1. DON"T TURN OFF AUTOVACUUM
11. bitmap is the only strategy that can use multiple indexes
12. how to order your columns within indexes
    1. most restrictive condition on the left-hand side
    2. the one on the right is the tiebreaker
    3. equalities always on the left
13. you can haveas many = as you want in the where but at most one ineq not satisfied - bitmap scan
14. order by clause- how to sort?
    1. explicit sort
        1. if input data fits in working memory, 20 mb
            1. no limit cause- quicksort
            2. if limit- top=n heap sort
        2. if doesn't fit into work mem
            1. specialized merge sort
        3. sorting is just intrinsically slow though
    2. use an index
        1. use internal links of the smallest leaf to just move up
        2. means index or index-only scan is always returned in sorted order
        3. you can just add columns to an index to make it the column that you sort by
        4. any columns needed for only a covering index should be the rightmost so we order by them last
15. timsort- what python uses, gold standard of sorting algorithm
16. any time you're not doing a bitmap scan you autoamtically take advantage of the limit clause for faster processing
17. if you're bitmap scnaning- downside is that yuo have to return all of the results at once, i a large batch
    1. means ify ou're doing a limit, index scan is usually better
18. aggregate functions and group by strategies
    1. groupaggregate
        1. needs to be sorted in the column you're grouping by
        2. just counts down the input in a line and checks where yuo change over
    2. hashaggregate
        1. if input result in't sorted
        2. as i tprocesses the tuple it builds up a has h table that contains th efum for each one of the state
        3. just moving through an unsorted list adn putting fstuf in buckets
        4. this is way faster than doing the group aggregate if we have to do explicit sort
        5. if not, ga is faster
19. join strategies- these are traditionally thought of as slow- used for any kind of join
    1. nested loop join
        1. default- works in all scenarios- works withuot an index
        2. runtime is the size of the tables multiplied by each other
        3. just loop over both tables and make sure each spot works
    2. with an index on table b
        1. for the inner loop we can replcace it with an index lookup- changes it to log time
    3. hash join
        1. when you have an equality join condition- large initial overhead to build the hash table
        2. only one for loop which happesn in leinear time- so it's linear in the size of the two tables
    4. merge join
        1. like the merge step of merge sort
        2. requires sorted inputs and an equality join condition
        3. and it can stop early!
        4. m+n runtime with small overhead
20. postgres first join and then where's
    1. but this is inefficient- we could filter first!
    2. to make it happen first we need an equality index befors  sorting 
    3. so we want the equality to happen before the data in insorted order
21. there's going to be some new stuff but we've done all the hard parts- look up questions in the references
