---
Class: Big Data
---

1. new extra credit on github!
2. #1 security vulnerability at websites- now it's only 10%, user input can allow sql injections
3. NEVER USE f-strings! use your library's syntax to escape this
4. in sqlalchemy this uses bind commands
5. biggest takeaway from lab/hw - there are lots of pitfalls when working with sql/python databases
    1. llms or code you don't understand is def going to fall into them
    2. they are good at finding mistakes or places to double check if you give them all the code
6. the `UNIQUE` constraint requires that there aren't any duplicate value in the column specified
7. `self.connect` creates a session- but a transaction is created inside of a section
8. if we have a value we're possibly inserting this blocks other transactions that are considering adding it if there's a unique constraints
    1. this both blocks and errors
    2. not a dirty read
        1. two transactions can interact with each other at the level of blocking and erroring- it would be a dirty read if we got the value and tried to do something with it
9. unique causes weird behavior with null- the null value never conflicts with non-nulls
    1. the null values never block each other with `UNIQUE`
    2. this is bc unique uses the `=` to check if an insert is valid, and `NULL!=NULL`
10. if something is potentially in the table and the table has a unique constraint, trying to add it will block
11. nothing is different between different isolation levels here
12. postgres puts a row level lock on the unique index when you add values
13. foriegn keys
    1. references constraint- inside of sql how they talk abouti t, but nowhere eles
    2. in order to insert value into u, value must already exist inside of the a column in the t table for `CREATE TABLE u(b INT REFERENCES t(A)) ;`
    3. must reference a unique columni n another table
        1. if it hasn't been committed yet or doesn't exist you'll get an error
    4. if you try to drop a table that has other tables that depend on it for foriegn keys you'll also get an error
14. drop cascade drops the foreign key constraints on the other tables without dropping the tables
15. deferring constraints
    1. if you add `DEFERRABLE INITIALLY DEFERRED` to the create table statement internal inconsistencis don't break until you commit
        1. so if you have two identical values in  a unique table it's okay with that until you commit
    2. it will also stop both of the conflicting commands from running- does a rollback
16. whenever there's an error in a transaction, the entire transaction is aborted
17. remember- whenever you're not in a transaction, psql adds an implicit transaction
18. for next quiz- not responsible for section 9 in old one or section 3 in new notes packet- but everything else we are
19. `PRIMARY KEY`
    1. it's unique and not null
