---
Class: Big Data
---

1. reminder- takehome quiz on tuesday- do it this weekend
2. he extended twitter postgres indexes until the 16th to reduce load on the lambda server
3. `atop` shows the load on the server
4. final proj
    1. zoom submission
    2. we demo the proj 1-1
    3. can login whenever we want
    4. trading takes 10 minutes, then we get our grade on the project and the class
    5. if we wait until friday we'll have to wait up to 2-3 hours depending on the line
    6. there's an option for an in-person demo- then it'll last an hour and we'll get asked detailed follow up questions in the style of a sql technical interview
    7. this will not change our grade
    8. email him to arrange it
5. new office hours
    1. 9-11 wed through fri next week
    2. on finals week he'll be there the entire time 9-11
6. no final exam
7. last extra credit got posted
    1. we can get 4 points from watching videos about how people use postgres
8. quiz review
    1. the unique constaint is the only constaint that creates indexes
    2. we can learn about a table in psql using `\d {table_name}`
        1. it'll also show all the indexes
    3. if you have an or clause it's not possible for you speed it up with idx or idx only- you can't satisfy both conditinos with a single btree
    4. we can use `set_enable` to let us enable/disable various kinds of scans to see what's possible
    5. indexes can only speed up where clauses when one of the sides exactly matches the inside of hte index creation
    6. `:value` is a user-provided value - can come from python
    7. you can use an `INCLUDE` clause with `UNIQUE` indexes when you want only one of your columns to be unique
    8. the inequality needs to match what you're ordering by for it to be fast- to take advantage of limit or having information already be sorter
    9. if the data is sorted you don't need to worry about which way
    10. remember- for maximally fast joins we need indexes on both sides
    11. putting in group bys doesn't effect the way we write indexes
    12. if group by and order by are on separate columns we have to use hash aggregate to resort- this is super slow
9. always do tab completino in technical interviews- will make you look stupid
10. how you create a gin index actually- you put it before the column list
11. diff between gin and btree- we can store more than one tuple id per word- can be lists or trees, depending on size
12. remember for where clauses the index has to include one half of the clause
13. you can't create an index on a subquery
14. if you provide only one parameter to `to_tsvector` it'll use english
15. `tsvector_to_array` - turns it into an array
16. `unnest()` unnests the arrays
17. you can't make an index on `ts_vector(text)` - without the language
18. merge and hash joins require equality join condition- means can't use them with a cross join
19. so you can only use the nested loop join
20. there absolutely will be a cross join on the quiz
21. take care of equality conditions first with indexes bc you know you'll need them
